---
weight: 123
---

# Structure of C program


## This is a Program:
```
#include<stdio.h>

int main(){
	int a = 1, b = 2;
	int c = a+b;
	
	printf("%d",c);
	
	return 0;
}
```

## line be line Explanation:

- `#`: A line in C that begins with `#` is a **Pre-processor Directive** and It is processed before actual compilation to modify source code or include resources.
- `include`: It let us add another file with code before our code.
- `<>`: It holds the name of the file we want to add. these files end with .h.
- `stdio.h`: It is a [^1]Library function, It adds printf (display output), scanf(take user input).
- `int`: int is a data type that holds Integer number. In this case, it is telling that output of the function is a integer number.
- `main`: It is the name of the function. In every C program there is a "main" function were we write core program.
- `()`: In this case, it holds the data given to a [^2]function. this is a main function therefore we leave it empty.
- `{}`: these hold a block of code. In this case, it is hold all the code of main function.
- `int a;`: This is how we [^3]declare a variable.
- In this example we are [^4]Initializing the variable while declaring.
- `=`: This is a assigning operator. It assign the variable on the left with the value on the right.
- `,`: it let us declare more then one variable.
- `;`: this is how a line ends in C. it is like a full stop in English.
- `printf`: It is a function that let us print anything on the display.
- `%d`: this is a place holder for a integer value.
- `,c`: It is tell this program to place value that c holds in the place of %d, in this case it is 3.
- `return`: It returns that ever is written after this, in this case 0 is returned because we declared the function with the "int" `int main`

[^1]: Library function are the functions that comes with the compiler

[^2]: function is a block of code that take a input, process it and give output

[^3]: telling there is a variable a that holds a integer

[^4]: Initializing means giving a value to a variable for the first time
